Hello, colleagues! My name is Natalia Volodina.
I am the Director of the Silvano Fashion Group's Personnel Holdings.
Today we are going to talk about the adaptation of the personnel.
I will share my knowledge and experience gained during my work in Silvano,
in the Moscow Nut Company, after participating in a number of consulting projects on this topic.
What is the adaptation of the personnel?
No matter how expensive the search for a new employee is, the next necessary step is its adaptation.
Sometimes the absence of a system of adaptation in a company or at least a number of elementary adaptation tools
leads to the absence of all the efforts made in advance.
Consultants say that about 80% of people who quit their jobs in the first six months of their work
are the ones who make decisions about it in the first two weeks.
The question is why this happens.
There are several reasons.
One of them is that the reality of the new employee is sometimes not in line with what we told him during the interview.
The second reason is either the informational vacuum that the employee is in,
not even his inability, but our inability to provide him with the necessary information that he needs,
or vice versa, there is too much information that the employee is lost in it.
The adaptation system is one of the elements of the personnel management system.
Nevertheless, we pay attention to it very often on the residual principle.
We train and develop people, we evaluate them, we form a corporate culture.
Nevertheless, the main goal of the personnel adaptation program is to reduce the costs of the organization.
It is important to remember about this economy.
What is the reason for the reduction of the costs of the organization?
The first reason is that our new employee is more likely to take office.
If an employee is more likely to take office, it means that he is going to the level of performance that is necessary in his profession.
Therefore, the first is performance.
The second is a reduction in the number of marriages.
If we approach the adaptation of an employee seriously, we train him, explain everything that he needs,
then the number of possible mistakes in the first days, weeks, months of work is reduced.
The second, in addition to the accelerated process of entering the position, is a reduction in the level of flow of personnel.
The number of people who do not pass the probation period is reduced, as well as those who leave our company in the first six months of work.
Why do we divide probation period and first six months of work?
The probation period is a period when not only the employee, but also the company undergoes a test before the employee.
Here, it is easier for the employee to resign, and it is easier for the company to part with him.
Nevertheless, a number of employees, even realizing that they do not want to continue their career in our companies,
do not leave the company during these three months, so as to, as they explain, not to spoil their record in their workbooks.
Therefore, it is important to understand that one of the indicators that we track when talking about adaptation is how many people have been fired in the first six months, or even a year of work.
Such dismissals can be consequences of improperly adapted systems and improperly used tools.
Of course, there are a number of benefits for the company and for the employee from the implementation of the adaptation system.
Let's see what benefits each party has.
If we talk about the employee, then he is in the presence of a certain ideal situation, which we will strive for, and we would like this system to be in our companies.
If we talk about the employee, then the first benefit is to receive complete information that is required for work.
It is not a search for something, to look up something, someone retold, someone knows, or someone guessed and shared with the employee.
It is exactly the complete objective information that is necessary for work.
The next benefit is a decrease in the level of uncertainty and anxiety.
Psychologists who study the impact of stress in our lives determine that changing jobs is one of the major stress factors.
According to one of the studies, it is in the third place.
In the first place, it is the death of a loved one, and in the second place, it is divorce.
In the third place, it is changing jobs.
It is in such a situation that our task is to support a person.
The next benefit is to improve the satisfaction of work and to develop a positive attitude towards the company.
This is also a benefit for the company, but it is also important for the employee to understand that the choice he made is correct.
Then the employee learns the norms of corporate culture, builds schemes of interaction with colleagues, and always receives feedback.
This is his benefit if the adaptation system exists.
What are the benefits for the company?
First of all, it is the mechanism of assessing the professional and management competencies of the employee, his potential as a result of the first months of work.
When after a few months we understand who joined us, what he can do, what he can do.
Maybe he was overrated at the entrance, when he was selected, he sold himself well, as we say.
Maybe he was underrated, and our task is to correct this mistake.
The next is the identification of shortcomings of the existing selection system.
Very often, in the first few months, those people who should not have joined our company are fired.
Because we made a mistake when selecting.
And, accordingly, with a built-in adaptation system, we will also see.
The next is the possibility of planning the career of a new employee.
In no case should we forget that, in addition to this, we develop, let's say, institutes of mentorship in the company.
Leaders, in the department of which employees come, develop their management competencies related to training, with the provision of feedback, and so on.
This is very important.
But, colleagues, do not forget that these are just benefits.
The main goal is to reduce the costs of the organization.
The question is about the adaptation system, what it is needed for, and, most importantly, when.
As we know from the economic theory, the company goes through several stages during its development.
The first stage is the formation of the company.
At the stage of formation, when the company is still small, when all acquaintances, when all one team, when there is a sense of belonging.
Most likely, there may not be a person who is engaged in the adaptation of new employees, because employees are poured into this team, sometimes a happy team.
But time passes.
And at the stage of formation, it really is so.
Everyone is still together, often sit in some united room, if we are talking about small companies.
And a person, coming to the company, immerses himself in this environment, is imbued.
Everything is available, everything is within reach.
But time passes, companies develop.
And there is a period of intense growth.
New employees appear.
At the time of new employees, more, more, more and more.
And here you have to grab your head, you have to do something.
Because what happens?
What can be the negative consequences of this growth for the company culture?
First of all, information can be lost.
Previously, some employee was irreplaceable, he knew everything.
Without him, the company stopped.
He did not go on vacation, he worked without weekends, because he was a source.
New employees appear.
It is important to take knowledge from this source, which will be necessary for work.
If suddenly our key employee resigns, then knowledge is lost with him.
Therefore, the first is the loss of knowledge.
It is necessary not to allow it.
The second.
The second may be the emergence of subcultures.
Due to the fact that newcomers unite, as if old people are a little far away, they do not pay much attention to them.
And somehow newcomers first went to have lunch, then did something else together.
And over time, the corporate culture of the company that was, it begins to blur.
It does not blur on purpose.
Sometimes it's great, sometimes it's not.
We must decide for ourselves whether we need it.
But it is important to remember that, I repeat again, the emergence of subcultures and the blurring of corporate culture is another consequence.
The absence of an adaptation system during the period of intense growth.
Therefore, during this period of growth, it is necessary to think about the tools, to work out them.
What will it be?
A book for an employee?
Will it be some kind of introductory course?
But some elements that do not require special costs, such as providing a new employee to the team.
Who is he? What will he do? Who will he interact with?
Providing a new employee to the team.
Who is responsible for what? Who is addressed on what issues?
It does not take a lot of time and effort, but sometimes it does not happen in our companies.
An employee comes to his department, he knows who is sitting on the right, who is sitting opposite, who is sitting on his left side.
He does not represent people from other departments at all, who are, let's say, unfamiliar characters to him.
This is a period of intense growth, and it is necessary to think about it.
Once again, who should think about it?
The staff may not be in the service, or there may be one manager per staff.
It is important to remember this about the linear manager, the one whose department employees come to.
The next stage is stabilization.
At the stage of stabilization, everything is already measured.
Newcomers come, old people leave.
This is already a normal, usual, everyday process.
At this stage, it is already appropriate to talk about improving the efficiency of the system.
Maybe something that we did then, during the period of intense growth, is no longer necessary.
Maybe the employee's book, which was created two years ago, has become outdated, and no one looks at it.
At this stage, we are talking about how to improve the efficiency of adaptation tools.
If we have an Internet site with a page for our newcomers, we need to see if newcomers go there, and who goes there.
Maybe we do it for ourselves, as it is sometimes said, when the staff does something for themselves,
and its internal clients and other employees do not use it.
If this is so, it is sad.
And this should be thought about and checked.
At the fourth stage, the stage of decline or crisis, if the company reaches it,
and does not go through the stage of rapid growth again,
the tools lose their efficiency, they do not update, they begin to age,
and it seems that something was, and something is.
And sometimes this leads to a kind of refusal.
Therefore, colleagues, thinking about it, I think you have repeatedly thought about it,
in our companies, in fact, how, is there a system, what is the system?
Always keep in mind that the tools that we adopt,
whether it is adaptation of staff, whether it is training, assessment or something else,
the tools must correspond to the level, that is, the stage of development of our company, which our organization is experiencing.
Adaptation of staff
Colleagues, let's talk about such concepts as adaptation period and trial period.
In literature, these concepts are often found as synonyms.
What is it really?
It is important to remember that the trial period is a legal concept.
And in our country, the duration of the trial period is regulated by the Labor Code.
Adaptation period is something else.
What do specialists say?
Psychologists say that the adaptation period can last from two months to two years.
The period is insane.
What are we talking about today?
About two years, two months, two weeks.
Colleagues, the question that we should answer in our companies is
how long can we shorten the adaptation period of new employees.
Very often, in Russian practice, we equate the adaptation period to the trial period.
It is important to understand whether it is always so.
What is three months?
On the one hand, it is not enough to fully adapt to the team.
On the other hand, let's look at the organization.
Our task is to look at it with such eyes.
Three months pass, and the employee, to whom we have taken on a number of tasks, has not yet reached the level of its performance.
How many companies are ready to lose?
The company is losing money in this period.
The employee does not finish something, does not work on it.
It is not because he does not want to or does not know how to.
It is because he does not succeed or some conditions have not been created.
This issue must be determined within each organization.
It depends on the level of the employee, on the position he occupies.
Today we will talk about the features of adaptation of different categories of employees.
It is important to understand what adaptation activities, what period we take for each of the categories.
There are a number of employees, if they are working employees, who come to ordinary positions, for example, in the production department, in the workshop.
We say that three days, a week, two weeks, no more, because after two weeks we need the process to go and the production not to lose its effectiveness.
If this is an office specialist, a marketing department, let it be a personnel department,
we take a slightly longer period and we are ready to wait a month, wait two, so that the employee reaches the level that is required of him,
and we are ready to learn him along the way, explaining, showing, and so on.
This should not be a chaotic process, it should be planned in advance.
We must understand what, when, from whom we will demand.
Let's talk about when our efforts to adapt the employee begin.
You can highlight a number of stages.
Colleagues, these stages are not a kind of a prescribed truth when we say that do only this way, not in any case.
These are some stages that you define in your company for your employees and say, it is so convenient for us, because it is clear to us.
So, if we talk about the stages.
The first is what we do before the start of the work of a new employee in the company.
What can it be?
It can be, first of all, the preparation of the workplace, the preparation of the plan of his work.
What is the preparation of the workplace?
This is the installation of a computer, at least, this is the search for the place where the employee will sit.
Often, when an employee comes, we say, sit here, we ordered furniture, or we order now, what color do you want?
Most likely, this is not about caring for some color preferences of employees, but about the fact that it was not done.
And the first days, when the same impression is formed, and the same relationship between the company and the employee begins to tie up,
the employee sits at someone's side or at the place of the colleague who is on vacation and feels a little uncomfortable.
So, this is the first thing we do before he appears.
The next period is the introductory one.
This is the first day of the work of a new employee.
We must understand what should happen to him on the first day, who he will meet, when he will meet, what to learn.
And not just a registration in the personnel department, which is very often limited.
It seems that he came, he was told a little about the company, the instruction was definitely carried out in safety techniques,
well, it seems that he was introduced to the course of the case.
Colleagues, this is not enough.
Therefore, the first day of a new employee, he must be prepared.
We will talk about who should do this, the staff or the personnel, the line manager, the mentor.
It depends on the size of the company, on its structure.
Now we are talking about what it should be.
The next period is the introductory one.
This is the first week of work in the company.
These are the most intense weeks in terms of getting information from the person who came to us.
How we will give him, in what volume, in what terms, in what pace, depends on how he perceives it.
Therefore, at this stage, there may be some introductory courses or welcome training.
Welcome training, which we will also talk about.
These are the instructors, this is communication with the managers, with the key employees with whom he will interact.
This is work with databases.
This can be an intranet database, if we have placed all the necessary documentation for work there, or something in print.
This is already work according to the plan that is made for him.
The next is the introduction to the position.
This is the biggest period.
And most often it is occupied by professional training.
When an employee begins to learn during work, interacting with an instructor or a direct manager.
Or when we organize a specific training for him.
If we are talking about the operator of the call center,
who is required to go to training in order to learn the standards that are adopted in the company.
The next period is the evaluation and final one.
The moment of the end of the trial period,
we have already discussed that the trial period and the adaptation period are often compared.
This process must be somehow noted, because the results of the work must be summed up.
How does the employee work, is all the information brought to him, how does he perform his direct duties.
The evaluation period is mandatory.
This does not mean that this is a kind of event or event.
This is a conversation between an employee and a manager.
Very often this is not the case.
It seems that three months have passed, it seems that he is working.
Let him work further, and then we'll see.
Nevertheless, this period of dialogue, a period of conversation for an employee who has ceased to be new,
he has already worked for several months.
This is a period and an opportunity to ask questions to your direct manager.
For the manager, this is an opportunity to give feedback.
Let's talk about the aspects of adaptation, which are discussed by specialists and authors in the field of personnel management.
There are four of them.
The organizational aspect, the social-psychological, the professional and the psychophysiological.
What is it? What is it really?
In fact, everything is very simple.
The first is the inclusion of an employee in an organization.
The second is his inclusion in a team.
And the third is his inclusion in a profession.
Let's look at these aspects in order.
So, organizational adaptation.
Organizational adaptation is responsible for the employee getting answers to his questions
related to the activities of the organization in which he got.
What are the strategic goals and priorities of the company?
How is management carried out?
How are business processes established?
How are decisions made?
What is the structure?
How is the meeting, meeting and so on?
How does the organization live?
Each organization has its own rules and standards.
It is important to have an opportunity to provide this information to the employee.
Very often it happens, let's say, by instinct.
The employee begins to absorb and look at the sides.
What are the strategic goals?
Look on the Internet, answer a colleague at work.
Or read a newspaper if it is a large public company.
In fact, these are the answers that the company has.
And they should be, let's say, formalized.
The employee should have the opportunity to familiarize himself with them.
It's great if the company has local regulatory acts
dedicated to, let's say, how the budgeting process is going on.
This is very important for the line manager or the head of the department
who comes to the company.
But he should learn this from some documents.
And not that someone told him something, by the way.
That by the 20th of the coming month we are making a budget,
send it, there is a vote, a budget committee and so on.
This is not the information that needs to be absorbed from the air.
Colleagues, it should be.
The next is social and psychological adaptation.
This is getting to know the corporate culture of the company.
This is an answer for the employee to the question
what are they, what is the company, what will I be like.
This is a very important aspect, because it is a joining of the team.
In any team, in any department, there are already their own norms,
their own rules, their own standards.
What do we do? We are like this.
And this is what the employee should familiarize himself with.
How do we live? Why do we live like this?
Because if we are talking about a joint professional life,
this person who came to us should share it.
The next is professional adaptation or getting a job.
This aspect can also be called pre-training.
That is, acquiring the knowledge and skills that the employee lacks.
It is not a secret that very often we take people who,
we say, this is our person.
It's okay that he doesn't know a little, we will teach him.
If we decided to do this during the interview, then we must teach him.
He should not have time to learn by himself,
but we must do something for him.
We must organize some courses or seminars.
If we do not have such an opportunity, because we are a small company,
then we must include him in the project, where he should understand.
We must offer him to work with a mentor.
It does not matter that the mentor is not a dedicated department,
but his neighbor.
The neighbor, on the other hand, knows his mission and mentorship.
He prompts, explains and does it purposefully.
And not just like that, let's say, in a friendly way, somehow in a neighborly way.
Therefore, this is a professional adaptation, pre-training.
Sometimes such concepts are included in this aspect,
that it seems that the employee came prepared.
For example, we are a large trading company,
we hire a supervisor, a specialist from the side with experience of working in such a position.
But it is important to remember that the supervisor,
as a linear leader of the trading team,
will train managers by personnel.
And it is important that he teaches them the way we teach in the company,
and not the way he was taught somewhere, sometime.
Therefore, during the period of professional adaptation,
we send this supervisor to some seminars,
or he gets acquainted with some methodological materials
on the topic with which he will work.
That is, he gets acquainted with the standards,
and learns from them.
The next is psychophysiological adaptation.
In fact, this is the adaptation of an employee
to a certain and often different from the usual working regime.
What can it be?
Let's look at some examples.
It can be a shift schedule.
A young specialist comes to us who has never worked a shift.
Why did we decide that he would be easy to work at night?
This is a different way of life for those people
who work 2 hours in 2 days, 3 hours in 3 days, it does not matter how.
Day and night, they change places.
It is difficult. Can an employee work like that?
The next is a shifted work schedule.
Someone starts working very early, and finishes earlier.
Or starts later, and finishes later.
It is important to understand whether a person is ready for this.
Of course, we remember this in case we have such conditions,
and we take people in such conditions.
The next is an unregulated working day.
Colleagues, we all say that we are ready to work unregulated.
Internal readiness is one thing, internal possibilities are another.
The next is a long business trip.
If we take a person and say that he will have business trips,
he says, super, I always dreamed of seeing my country,
neighboring countries, and so on.
It is necessary to understand what will happen in a month,
in 2, in 3 of his long business trips.
For one, it will really be super,
and for another, it will be some kind of tension,
some kind of dissatisfaction that will accumulate, accumulate, accumulate, and accumulate.
It is also worth thinking about.
The next example is, let's say, a project work.
People who work in a measured mode,
solving tasks, or, let's say, similar tasks, day by day,
do not always fit into the project.
Projects are very often characterized by burning deadlines,
when before a certain deadline we are straining,
working day and night, but we are doing something.
Again, it is not for everyone, it can be comfortable and convenient.
These are just a number of examples,
there may be something else in your companies.
Think, look around, look at what is there,
from the point of view of the labor regime in our case,
if we are talking about psychological, physiological adaptation,
something that can cause some kind of tension,
not even dissatisfaction.
Sometimes an employee says, I liked working with you,
thanks, good team, good company,
but I can't, it's difficult for me,
health, something else, and so on.
So keep this in mind.
If we are talking about the adaptation system today,
then we must understand that this is a kind of a set of elements.
And the management of the adaptation system involves several stages.
Colleagues, adaptation as a corporate culture,
even if we do not do it,
we cannot say that we do not have a corporate culture.
It is as it has developed, it is.
We also cannot say that we do not have adaptation.
Employees somehow join the team, the company, and so on.
So, this is how it happened,
a kind of chaotic process, it exists.
It exists now, in any company, you too.
And if you start thinking about it,
first, analyze the current situation.
Look what is there.
This is a very good advice for those personnel specialists
who come to a new job, to a new company themselves.
By the way, very often in literature you can find thoughts
that a bootlegger is without boots.
When HR or a personnel manager comes to a company,
no one is doing his adaptation,
he somehow adapts himself.
This really happens.
But, thank God, not in all companies.
Therefore, if you are the same personnel manager
who came to the company,
well, do not think about yourself.
If you have already come to the conditions you are in,
look around, look how other employees are adapting to your company.
It will be easy for you to do it,
because you are a newbie yourself in such a situation.
Therefore, the first thing is to analyze the current situation.
We looked, analyzed.
The next thing is to determine the procedures that are really needed.
The determination of the procedure, colleagues,
depends on the stage of the company's development,
on the goals in the area of personnel management.
After that, we determined the third stage.
We develop and implement.
And the fourth stage is the assessment of efficiency.
Because you can develop and implement a lot.
How effective is it for us?
So, let's go in order.
Analysis of the current situation.
What are the auditing methods?
When, with very often limited time resources,
when there are no budgets,
you can still do something.
Let's see what methods are.
The first is the analysis of documents and local regulatory acts
that regulate adaptation procedures.
This is really a method.
But it is important to understand,
and in my experience I have encountered situations
when there is a situation of adaptation.
You think, that's cool.
In life, you ask questions, and they say,
well, there is, but it doesn't work somehow.
We do what we do.
Therefore, analyzing, you need to understand,
if such a document already exists,
then it is about what was thought about.
And so, when you analyze what you will read,
what you will see,
you will understand whether there are gaps or not.
Whether there is a discrepancy or not.
The next is observation.
Observe how it all happens around you.
The next is an interview or conversations.
Who can you talk to?
You can talk to employees
who have been hired in the company
up to six months ago.
Those who remember how it was with them.
This is a conversation with employees
who are fired after less than a year.
Remember?
Those who do not want to spoil the work record,
but can no longer work with us for some reason.
This is an interview with managers,
whose divisions have a large set of staff.
What do they do with people?
How do they work?
Who works with them?
Managers are a very good source of information.
These are our direct clients,
internal clients in the company.
We work with them.
The next is a focus group with experts.
Under the experts, we understand
the staff of the department,
the same managers,
the same leading employees of other departments.
When we get together and ask a question
about how it is, whether it is correct,
whether it works.
Why doesn't it work if it is so?
The next is a survey.
The so-called pulse survey.
During internal corporate research,
there is such a practice in your companies,
a small block is included for employees
who have worked less than half a year
with certain questions.
The advantage of this method is
that we can cover almost 100% of the target audience.
The disadvantage is that we will not ask enough questions.
Perhaps they will not tell us
what they could tell us during the interview.
Because during the survey,
we will not write down the questions,
we will not guess.
The next point is what to ask.
Here is the manager,
here are the employees who have worked for half a year,
and so on.
What do we ask?
The first question is whether the importance of adaptation
is understood by linear managers.
What do managers think about this question?
They say,
why do we need it?
He came and came, let him work,
and they are glad that we invited him.
Or they understand that something needs to be done,
even if he is glad that we invited him.
The next question is who is responsible
for the adaptation process of a new employee.
Who exactly?
The manager, the mentor, the staff service,
the manager in the only person who does everything,
as it sometimes happens,
and is responsible for it too.
If not,
how are the roles of the staff service
and the roles of the departments
in the process of adaptation?
The next question is how much the introduction to the position
and the whole procedure is differentiated
by the hierarchy of the profession.
How different are we in the company
to the specialists of different departments?
Do we have this or not?
Next,
who defines the mentor for the employee?
And in general,
is it interesting to be a mentor in the company?
Do the people who are already working
want to become mentors for the new ones?
Or is it a headache that says,
God, someone again, and again me?
The leading employee with the internship says,
because he really knows everything,
and we have no one but him.
And for him,
it's a breath of relief every time.
And he,
being a very loyal to our company,
goes to the internship every time.
This is a bad indicator.
What is included in the complex of adaptation?
What tools are developed?
How often are they updated?
How do we evaluate the whole procedure?
Have we achieved the goal we wanted?
Or not?
How is the effectiveness of the event evaluated?
These are the questions.
Again, it's a series of questions.
I've given you several of them.
There can be one and a half times more,
or two times more.
They can be completely different.
But the information must be collected
to understand how we live.
I've given you only a few questions as an example.
They can be completely different.
Your task as a personnel specialist
is to find the most complete answers
to the questions about the adaptation procedure
in our company.
So,
we've analyzed the current situation
in our company.
Our next task is
to determine the list of tools we need.
There are several approaches to choosing tools.
The first one is the so-called problem-oriented approach.
When the thunder rumbles,
when we realize that something has happened,
we need to fix it.
This is the so-called reactive approach.
It's not always good.
It's better to predict, anticipate and understand.
Some people say it's better to do it later than never.
But if we have an opportunity to work for the future
and be proactive,
we need to be proactive.
The next one is the process-oriented approach.
It should be like this.
Everyone has it.
Yesterday I was at a conference
and I was told that it should be like this,
like this, like this in a company.
I liked it and I like the company.
Let's do the same.
When borrowing such tools,
it's great, it's important.
We borrow a lot from each other's experience.
But it's important to understand
whether the thing that works well
in my friend's company
will work for us.
Maybe it will.
The main thing is whether it's necessary for my company.
The next one is the goal-oriented approach.
Let's say, this is our approach.
This is the right approach.
When there are certain goals
in the area of staff management,
which are, let's say,
the consequence of the goals
of the company itself,
the goals of development.
And within this,
we determine what we need,
how we need to do it.
Colleagues, let's talk about
adaptation tools.
And the first tool we will talk about
is the Welcome Training.
Welcome.
In some companies it's called
Welcome to our course.
just a water training, and so on.
But I like the name Welcome Training,
so today I will use
this name.
It's important to understand,
first, that despite the fact
that it's called a training,
in fact, it's not a training.
Because it doesn't develop
any skills,
it's just a definition
of a real training.
So, in my previous company,
where I worked,
we talked about
the vaccination of the company.
It's the last opportunity
to please the employee
and show where he came from.
If the employee leaves
such a training or seminar
with a sense of pride,
which he had inside,
it means that the goal is achieved.
Very often Welcome Training
pursues two goals.
The first one is knowledge
about the company, about the product,
and so on.
The second one is emotions.
Emotions should be there.
In this training, in this seminar,
emotions should be there.
So, let's talk about the form of the training.
The first one.
It can be an auditory course,
it can be an electronic course,
or it can be a mixed version.
It's clear that, once again,
we are determined by the opportunities
and our needs.
Auditory courses are good
because employees can
talk to the host,
they can get to know each other,
those who joined the company
in one period.
But there are not always such opportunities,
because the branches of the company
can be in different areas,
in different cities,
and sometimes in different countries.
So, the first one is auditory.
The second one is electronic.
Some companies have
a very interesting solution
when these courses are
transferred to the electronic form.
Sometimes, even a kind of
a multiplication hero
tells about the rules,
about the norms that exist
in the company and informs
the employee about some basic things.
There are many providers
that offer such services
to the companies.
A mixed version is
when we combine the first and the second.
Perhaps, some part
can be studied independently
with the help of an electronic course.
But some part, if there is an opportunity,
it's great if it will be conducted
together, let's say,
as part of an auditory event.
Colleagues, once again,
there are many options.
There are many options.
Choose and combine the format
that is necessary and suitable for you.
Periodicity.
How often should you do it?
It is determined by the number
of new employees in your company.
If your company is small
and there are not many employees,
it's enough to do it once a month.
In the Moscow Nut Company,
where I worked, we did it once every three weeks.
We determined that it's the period
when several new people
will be working in the company.
It's often not appropriate.
It's not good to do it less often.
Someone came after the previous training
and he will wait for the next one
for a month or more.
We determined that it's once every three weeks
and we considered this format
acceptable for us.
In another company,
as far as I know,
such events are held once a week
on Fridays.
Every Friday, all the managers
of the department know
that the adaptation training
is being held now.
It's a welcome course
and you need to follow the new employee
to make him stay there.
Speaking about periodicity,
I recommend you to hold it
not as it will be
when the coach
has free time,
but to fix some day of the week
as an example.
You've seen it already.
Let it be
a specific time
so that the company
gets used to it
and the managers know about it.
They will remember it
in their heads.
It's not like they will move it
today or tomorrow.
The managers should remember it.
The next point is the duration.
How long should it last?
Once again,
it depends on the goal
and what you want to convey.
The welcome training
I've mentioned in my previous company
lasted for 3 hours.
1.5 hours was an auditory format
when the manager's coach
was talking about the company,
the products,
corporate culture and so on.
After that, 1.5 hours was
a tour of the production.
For some, 3 hours is a lot.
For others, 3 hours is 5 days,
no less.
There are such options.
Most often,
during these 5 days,
professional training
of a certain category of specialists is included.
When a new salesperson
comes to you
and before you let them
into the sales hall
to work with clients,
you teach them
the rules of working with customers
and the rules of working
with complaints
about the services you have.
1. The company's history
The company's history is the first.
If there are any myths in your company,
tell us about them.
Myths are something close to the truth.
Even the founder
may not remember
whether it really happened or not.
But it's the element
that affects
the emotional part
of the training.
The history,
the founders,
the first-person,
the company's structure,
all of this is in this section.
2. Information about
the products or services
offered on the market
The question is
how deep to tell about it.
I'll give you an example
to avoid being unfounded.
We work in a walnut company
and when we produce products
for the snack market,
we talk about the products.
It's our main activity
that we are proud of.
We asked ourselves
how to tell about it.
The answer was
that we talked about nuts,
dried fruits, seeds,
how they are fried,
how they grow.
It was the information
that was interesting to the employees.
It didn't matter if it was
a sales manager,
a manager or a receptionist.
When a person learns something new,
he will tell about it.
How peanuts grow,
how pistachios grow.
It's interesting,
it's not the knowledge
that is often superficial.
During such a module
people will learn something new
that they will tell their relatives
or friends.
When it comes to the professions
where this knowledge
is necessary,
for example, sales managers,
technologists,
marketologists,
it depends on the company structure
and the products we offer.
An additional course can be organized
where there will be
some technical characteristics
and so on.
But it's important to outline.
I know the experience of oil companies
that teach their specialists
in the introductory course
how to extract oil.
Because when you work
thousands of kilometers
from the wells,
employees should understand
what they work for,
how they work,
who works.
So, the product and services
should be in a minimal
and modest format
for specialists
who will work with it more seriously.
The next is the principles
of the company structure.
You may have already told
during the interview
that you have a training center,
how the corporate events are held,
when the company's birthday is celebrated,
whether it's New Year's Eve.
So, there are some things
connected with your practices,
with your standards.
It would be great
if you invite a person
who has made this career
by telling about
your company.
He will tell you
not about how it is,
but about how it was in his practice.
It would be very convincing.
It would be a plus
for the listeners.
I think it would be pleasant
and even a little bit exciting
for the person who will share it.
The next is the company tour.
Very often
such a tour is considered
because we are familiar with it,
we have already visited it.
It depends on whether
it is a review
or a detailed tour.
In each company
there are photos,
awards,
and other things.
There are companies
with museums.
If these museums are working,
if they are newly created,
there are companies with a long history.
These museums have been here for a long time.
It is also interesting
to know about the company's history.
For example,
I will give an example of a Belarusian company
called Milovitsa.
There is a museum in the hall
of the company.
Since the foundation,
Milovitsa has been here for 100 years.
So, we can draw a conclusion
about how many things
the company has to tell
not only to employees,
but also to visitors.
If it is a company employee,
it is a great example.
If there is a movie
or even a few companies,
as I gave an example
of a field
where the companies' units work,
or
a movie about a certain topic,
it was shot and the movie exists,
it is time to show it.
Based on my experience,
we started the Welcome Training
in the Moscow Nut Company
with a short 8-minute movie
shot by the company
for the 10th anniversary.
It was interesting,
not long,
emotional and exciting.
And, of course,
it is the answers to questions
that the audience has.
This is about the content.
Next question.
Who conducts the training?
The answer is
the staff specialist.
It can be a training specialist,
adaptation specialist,
it depends on the structure.
It is great if you can
involve other specialists.
Remember, we said that
when you tell about your career,
you should invite the person
who made it.
It is great if the director
of a big company
or a small company,
the general director himself,
knows that it exists
and is glad to see
his team being replenished.
If the company is very big,
it can be a director
of a certain field.
A person,
a status person in the organization
who will be welcomed
with a sincere welcome.
Next.
Who else can be involved?
It can be a product specialist,
a market specialist,
or a technologist.
It is very important
if you have an union organization.
You should invite
its leader
or its member
so that they can
talk about their activities
during the seminar.
Next.
Who develops it?
Once again.
This product should be interesting.
So, if you have an opportunity,
involve specialists in the joint departments.
First of all,
specify the goals.
What and for whom
you will talk at the seminar.
Next, define the structure and content.
Prepare the content part
so that it is interesting,
with examples,
so that people are invited
if you decide to invite them.
Test the first versions of the seminar.
Evaluate it.
Give the evaluation sheets
to the participants.
Ask questions about how they were.
If there are any questions left.
Talk to them in person.
Once again.
You should have a product
that is very interesting,
emotionally rich
and informative.
It will answer
the new employees
and will charge them emotionally.
I know from my colleagues' experience
that there are so-called
newbie days as an alternative
to the welcome training.
They are typical for companies
where there is a large influx
of new employees,
possibly due to the influx of young people,
a set of young specialists.
If there is such a thing,
it is also a good option.
There is a so-called newbie day
where the official part is united,
where the story is told
about the blocks we have already discussed
and the informal part,
where a corporate team-building event
for the employees
that came to work
in the last month
is held.
The next tool is
the employee book.
It is called differently in companies.
I chose the simplest name.
Its goal is to orient the employee
in a large amount of information
that he needs to know
in the coming days.
The book can be structured
like a welcome training.
The blocks will be repeated.
It can start with a greeting
of the general director,
his deputy,
the director of staff,
then we talk about the company.
What we have mentioned
is a story,
strategic goals and priorities,
the organization,
the collegial management levels.
The next block
can be called our employees,
which includes the company's managers,
key employees,
possibly the best employees.
The next block
is our life,
where you describe annual events,
corporate traditions.
The position of the corporate ethical code
is often placed there,
if such a thing exists in the company.
The next block
is something like our rules.
It includes
the local regulations
that regulate the activity.
There can be rules of internal labor order,
the position of commercial secrecy,
and so on.
Everything you consider necessary
to bring to the employee
on the first day
so that it is with him.
The next block
can be, for example,
phone notes,
instructions on how to order a product
or schedule a business trip.
The answers to the questions
that will arise
and so that the employee
does not run around the company
in search of them,
he already has the answer.
Very often, such books
are made by employees
in an electronic form,
which is great,
because it gives quick access
to information,
the employee can choose
what he needs
and get an answer to his question.
I can say from experience
that the books of employees
are sometimes divided thematically.
For example,
if you have many new managers,
maybe you have a growing staff reserve
and you are appointed
as a manager of a department
it is great to make a book
for a manager.
You will not put
some things there,
but you will definitely put
things related to the manager's topic,
let's say,
about what the manager
needs to know.
If an employee experiences
a rise and appointment for a new position,
it is often said that this is a secondary adaptation,
that is, it is already an adaptation
in a new place.
And those positions,
that information
that the employee did not work with before,
and now, having become a manager,
he needs it,
you can include it in such books.
There can be,
let's say,
a division by profession.
For example,
in one of the energy companies
there is a completely amazing book
called Energetika.
It can be a book of a young specialist,
where you prepare some introductory documents
for, let's say,
for trainees.
For example,
in the Moscow Orekhova company,
I have been addressing
and will continue to do so,
we had a book of a sales department employee.
And there was the information
that was necessary
for the sales department employees.
It was already there initially,
he received it.
About the sales technique,
about working with objections,
about the standards of the book,
and so on.
He received it,
and the information that we thought
should have been brought to him
in the first days,
it happened.
What is interesting,
such books were received
by people working in different regions,
and people working thousands of kilometers
from the central office
were treated equally
with employees in Moscow.
The next tool
that can be in your company
is the so-called
set of a beginner.
The question is, what is it different from the employee book?
Once again,
the employee book is something created,
structured,
having a single structure
and high-quality content.
As for the set of a beginner,
this set can include something else besides the book.
Maybe you don't have a book,
and there is a number of separate documents
that you collect
for the arrival of a new employee.
The set of a beginner can include
a corporate newspaper number,
a plan of entering the position,
some booklets,
marketing booklets of the company.
By the way, a very important point
that I have not yet mentioned,
and I will definitely mention it,
is that when developing such tools,
whether it is a welcome training,
a training for professionals,
PR and marketing departments,
you should remember the following.
If a tool is created
or borrowed
from the marketing department,
the following may happen.
The clients of the marketing department
are external clients outside the organization,
and their tools,
their brochures
are aimed at them.
Our clients,
the clients of the staff service,
are the employees.
And very often,
the tools of the marketing department,
a beautiful brochure,
are good as an additional material,
but not as a single one.
Because, once again,
we have a different target audience.
Not external clients,
but employees.
The next one is the first day of a new employee.
We talked about the fact
that you need to prepare for this day.
There should be a ready workplace.
It should be a place for a predecessor.
Some piles of papers,
broken pencils,
and so on.
It clearly shows
that a person worked
very actively.
This is not what you need.
If your company has such things
as badges that can be prepared in advance,
it will be great if it is done.
Very often people ask
what badges, we have not yet taken a picture.
And there is no photo
that you need to post.
But, of course,
you can do such thing as an e-mail in advance.
And not to give it to a new employee
for a refund,
who calls the IT service
and asks to be connected
and done something.
Access to the database,
and so on.
I know an interesting experience
that on the first day
a sign of welcome
from colleagues is prepared.
It can be a small chocolate,
a bag of nuts,
or something else.
It is very good
to have such a sign of welcome.
It will influence
a good impression
of a new employee
from all of us.
Once again,
we do not forget
that the first few days
of a week
and a month
of a company employee
are not only
when we look at him,
but also when he looks at us.
That is why you have achieved success
if on the first day
a company employee
is proud and has an inner positivity.
The next point
is to introduce a new employee.
Colleagues, there are two aspects.
First,
we have to introduce
an employee to the workers.
At the same time,
we have to introduce
a new employee to his team
and his future colleagues.
It is clear that
it is chaotic in companies.
If you have introduced a new employee,
it is like you have introduced him.
If you have not introduced him,
you can say that
a brand manager is sitting here,
an accountant is sitting there,
and so on.
But there were no such people.
So,
he should be prepared
at the moment.
First,
if we are talking about introducing an employee,
make sure to separate
a regular employee from a new manager.
If it is a regular employee,
tell him something
and introduce him to his closest circle.
If it is a manager,
the field of his future interaction
will be larger.
And the manager
should be given more information
because his subordinates
and other employees
are interested in it.
If it is a top manager,
it should not be
given to the side.
I recommend
preparing so-called meeting plans
which include
specific information
about the scheme,
who, when and how.
If it is a big company,
it is possible to organize a video conference.
Or it is possible
to post an interview
with a new manager
in the website
where he will answer questions
and tell about his experience,
biography and personal characteristics.
It is necessary
to introduce a manager.
People are waiting for it.
Very often, when a new manager comes,
he will introduce a new method.
It is important to remember
that this feeling of fear
should be replaced
by a feeling of trust
to facilitate
the introduction of a manager
to our team.
Sometimes people ask
how it is possible
to introduce a manager
to a big company
and tell him
to adapt to the new manager.
It is clear that all this happens
during a dialogue.
You, as a manager,
can offer tools.
There is an Internet site,
an e-mail,
an opportunity to post an interview
or a note about a position
in corporate press.
We have some options in companies.
Do not forget to work on them.
It is very important.
At the same time,
it is important
not to overload people.
If someone has a bad memory,
a new employee
will smile to everyone.
It is important to identify
the key people
to work with.
They can be
key people
from other departments.
It is clear that it is necessary
to introduce them to your department.
It is good to introduce them
to the higher management.
The employee should know them.
How else?
They should know the managers
of another level.
The next tools
are related to training.
It is training
during adaptation.
It is a training
that you will consider
necessary
and you will consider
necessary to send to the employee.
It can be
a variety.
It is good
to have a mentor
and to work with him.
We will talk about
who can be a mentor
and what is
his job.
Colleagues,
we have listed a number of adaptation tools.
Once again,
the list is incomplete.
These are the main things
that are necessary
to find the right tool
for your organization.
I am sure
you already have something like that.
But the question arises.
How can we
do this,
give this, send this,
and include this person in the project?
We are ready.
How can we find the right tool?
The answer is simple.
It is an adaptation list
or adaptation plan.
It is a document
that is prepared for the arrival of the employee.
You think about it
and include the necessary
activities in it.
The adaptation list
consists of three parts.
The first one is the goals for the adaptation period.
You prescribe them.
It is a kind of agreement between you and the employee.
The next one is the adaptation event.
It is what you will do,
what the company
will provide to the employees.
You specify the name,
time, duration,
and the place of the event
so that the employee can orient himself.
The third part is the adaptation event.
It is what you demand
from the employee during this period.
Maybe in a month
the sales department
will want to check
how well the employee knows the assortment,
the product, and the work standards.
It is necessary to record
that in a month
you will be asked about this,
about that, and about that.
The adaptation list is signed
on the first day of work.
It is signed by the manager and the employee.
It is a document
that is a kind of
a map for the employee.
It is a kind of a map
in his steps
to join
our company.
Colleagues, let's move on.
Let's answer the question
who should
develop the training, prepare the book,
fill the adaptation list, and so on.
Let's just analyze it
in order.
It is necessary to understand
that there are several participants
of the adaptation process.
In the ideal case,
which is not always
met in practice,
there is a manager.
The manager is the employee's boss.
The second one is a mentor.
The third one is a curator.
The fourth one is HR service.
Let's see
what each of the participants
is doing in the process.
Colleagues, it is necessary to understand
that in this case
they do not always exist.
Sometimes the company can be small
or the department can be very small.
Therefore, the manager
performs the functions of the mentor.
In any case,
if any of the participants
of the adaptation process is not present
for any reason,
the functions of the adaptation process
should be distributed among the others.
Let's describe an ideal situation
of how it could be
if all the participants were present.
The first one is the managers.
What do the managers do?
Colleagues,
I call you again
to understand
that the main function
of the adaptation of a new employee
is within the department,
not HR service.
HR service is a consultant,
coordinator, developer.
But
the department managers
should be not only our assistants,
but also our assistants.
It happens very often
when people ask questions
during the seminars
that the manager does not hear them.
At this stage,
we can say that
the decision is either
not sold,
that is, the manager does not see the benefits,
or he is not comfortable
with the way you offer.
Be sure to enter into a dialogue.
Perhaps you have developed
such an adaptation list
that it takes a lot of time
to fill it.
You are very well prepared for this.
Perhaps you can cut it four times.
It will be on one page,
but it will be clear,
the manager will work with it.
What we offer should be a working result.
Then the managers
become our supporters.
To make it work,
be sure to ask what they need,
how convenient it will be for them to work.
If we talk about the manager,
then the manager determines
the duties of the future employee.
It is clear that
very often it is already written,
and we knew about it
at the selection stage.
But I say it again,
because there are different moments in life,
and sometimes it is surprising.
The next thing.
The manager sets goals and tasks
for the test period.
He says what he will be asked
from a new employee
after a certain period of time.
The next thing.
The manager determines a mentor
from the number of working specialists.
He introduces the new employee
with an adaptation sheet
and explains the purpose of the event.
The manager prepares
the adaptation sheet.
The next thing is
tracking intermediate results.
It is important when
in a month or two,
or in a short period of time,
there is a conversation
between the employee and the manager,
where the manager
directs and answers
the questions that may arise.
The next thing is
evaluating the tasks
and conducting evaluation events
at the end of the adaptation period
or the test period.
If we compare these concepts
and prepare adaptation programs
for three months,
the test period is equivalent.
The last thing is
making a decision
whether a person will stay in the company
or continue working.
The manager sets the direction
of the activity.
These are all his functions.
They are not so simple,
but they are useful
if there is a mentor.
What does the mentor do?
The mentor's function
is to prepare
the workplace
for the first day of the event.
The mentor is responsible
for the preparation
of the workplace
for the first day of the event.
He is responsible for the greeting
of the first day of the event.
I know an interesting solution
in one of the companies,
where the application
for the new workplace
is filled by the manager
on the day of the application
for the search of the employee.
The application is already in the form of an application
and the information is sent
to the necessary services.
The process is automated.
The mentor accompanies
and trains the employee
during the period
of his joining
the organization,
the team and the position.
This is his assistant.
Let's talk about the mentor's functions.
The first and main task
is to train the employee.
This is to pass on the knowledge
and skills that are necessary.
The mentor's institute
is vital
in the production units.
When working
with equipment
or certain tools,
the mentor is needed
for the person
who came
with the work experience.
If he is a young specialist,
there can be no discussion.
The next task
is organizational assistance.
This is the most important
task
in the organization.
It is to provide
the Internet access,
databases,
and so on.
This is to provide feedback.
Colleagues,
we should not always be optimistic.
It is important to understand
that not everyone can be a mentor.
We will also mention
the competencies that distinguish
a mentor from a non-mentor.
It is important to understand
that the person
can pass on the knowledge
to another person.
When I mentioned the participants,
I also mentioned the mentors
as curators.
In some companies,
this term is used as a synonym.
I want to suggest the curator
as a so-called buddy.
In Russian,
it is a friend.
A friend.
If a mentor
is usually a higher status person,
a person with a more formalized
attitude,
because he sets a task, evaluates,
and corrects it,
a curator is a person
who accompanies,
helps,
and is responsible
for the social adaptation
of a person in the team.
He tells how and when
it is customary to go to lunch,
how other employees
are thrown off on their birthdays,
how it happens.
These are small things
that you don't always write down
in books, even if they exist.
The simplest example
is that you need to bring
a cup of tea from home
or you can use the one you have.
Very often
we don't assign such people.
We say, you will be his friend.
There are people
who take a new person
under the wing
and tell him about some
of the team's features.
They support him emotionally.
I don't always
highlight this as a side.
But you need to remember
that there are such aspects.
You need to think about
how it will be solved
if you don't have such a friend.
What does the staff do?
We forgot about it.
First,
the staff is responsible
and manages all projects
if it can be called a project
for the adaptation of a new employee.
They monitor
the system's efficiency
and some adaptation tools.
The staff's activities
can be divided into
new employees and clients.
That is, mentors and line managers.
What do we do for new employees?
First of all,
we participate in
adaptation activities.
It can be a welcome training
or a beginner's day.
The service's specialist
takes part in it.
It's a preparation
of the employee's kit.
It's a guide to some companies.
It's an emotional support
for a new employee.
It always happens that
the person who chose
the person in the company
is always worried
and asks the employee
how things are going
and if everything is fine.
The next activity
is aimed at the internal clients
or line managers or mentors.
It's a development of the activity
on the training of the mentor skills.
It's a development
of motivational schemes for mentors.
If we say that the institute of mentorship
exists,
we should understand
how we stimulate people
to strive for
and be effective mentors.
So,
if we talk about the institute of mentorship,
in some companies
it's necessary to understand
that a mentor can combine
his or her direct activity
with mentorship.
In some other companies
these positions are allocated.
For example, in a retail chain of stores
in a specific state
and even in every store
there can be a coach
who is constantly training
day and night
and is a mentor for new employees.
They combine their activity
with another one,
for example, with a job at a cashier.
Here is the next question
which is often asked.
Do we pay mentors' activity
or not?
It's important to understand
that any stimulation in a company
is divided into financial and non-financial.
If we talk about financial things,
the decision we make
depends on several factors.
First of all,
it's the intensity of selection.
How many new employees do we have?
If we don't have enough of them,
then,
I think,
it will be an honorable task
for one of the employees
to perform the function of mentors.
If the flow is big
and we want to be sure
of the efficiency of the process,
then we need to develop
a stimulus scheme.
It all depends on corporate culture.
How we do it.
How honorable
it is to be a mentor.
And how non-financial stimulation
proves that it's really so.
We say that it's a professional development,
that it's a certain status in a company.
If it is,
then we give up
the material component.
If it's not,
then we give up the material component.
This is the second factor.
The third one is the size of the organization.
Usually, the bigger the organization,
the more the institute of mentorship
exists as such.
And in the reward schemes
the criteria and mechanisms
of evaluation of these criteria
are prescribed,
for which mentors receive a bonus.
Funds are prescribed
and budgeted by the director
of the personnel
and the funds for mentorship.
It's important not to forget
that
it's useful
if we reward
for the result, not for the process.
The result of the mentor's activity
is
an effective employee
who has taken the position.
Therefore, one of the interesting
options when we offer bonuses
is not for the fact that
a person works for two months
and receives something every month,
as if he has
a mentor.
No.
Let him receive it once after two months,
but for the result.
It's very important.
It's great if the key indicators
of efficiency
or KPI
are developed
and the schemes are transparent for the employees.
If we talk about
non-financial stimulation,
we don't pay much attention to it.
It's a waste of time,
because it's not a budgetary
and costly tool.
For example,
recognition of the status of employees.
One of the companies
holds a competition for the best mentor.
The budget of the competition
is not very large,
but its emotional component
is connected
with the company's status.
Its efficiency is very high.
It's necessary to remember
that if a person is included
in the staff reserve
and acts as a mentor
to someone else,
it's one of the elements
of his development program
that can be indicated in his plan.
We use reservists,
teaching them to be a mentor.
All sides win.
Let's talk about evaluation
and training of mentors.
When we assign a person to be a mentor,
we should understand
that a mentor means
having a set of competences
that allow him
to become effective.
It often happens
that a good employee,
very smart,
but he can't pass his knowledge
to someone else.
In this case,
we should either teach
this employee to do it,
or understand that someone
else will become a mentor.
Not every good football player
or athlete becomes a good coach.
Coaches or mentors
are additional competences
in communication,
in understanding people,
in the ability to give feedback,
in the ability to be flexible,
and so on.
First of all,
the desire to pass knowledge
is tolerance.
When we assign a person
to be a mentor,
we should take into account
these competences.
Some of these competences
can be developed,
and then they should be
taught and developed
by the mentors.
When we assign a pool of experts,
they pass the training
we offer.
Speaking about the fact
that we should sell solutions
to the leaders,
let's imagine
that HR manager
of a company
develops an adaptation tool
and attracts a leader
who gets irritated
and says,
What should I do?
What should I do with a newbie?
I already know what to do.
In this case,
the solution for this
HR manager
is not to give up
and to create
positive precedents
in this area
and in other departments.
He starts working with
the leaders of other departments
who will understand
the benefits of
the adaptation tools
and will talk about it
in the company.
I'll give an example
of a case when
one of my colleagues
was very worried
that she couldn't
find a common language with the manager.
As she told me,
she had a kind of inner victory
when she was interviewing
a new employee
who was not friendly
to the manager.
The candidate
asked the question,
I'll join the company,
what will happen next?
What will I get?
The manager,
who was always against
and refused to participate
in any activities,
said, You'll get
an adaptation list
with all the adaptation activities
that you'll have to attend.
It was her kind of
victory
that the candidate
saw the benefit
and started
offering it
to the future employees.
It's clear that
in such a situation
the candidate
will become a supporter
and an ally of HR manager.
Colleagues,
let's move on
to the next part
and talk about the features
of adaptation of different categories of employees.
Remember,
at the beginning
we talked about UDIT.
We said that the tools
differ depending on the position,
hierarchy and professional
characteristics of employees.
Or what is used
all together.
Let's talk about it.
We can divide employees
into several categories.
The first one is
ordinary employees or workers.
The next one is
engineering and technical workers,
service workers, specialists.
The next one is young specialists.
The next one is
remote employees,
line managers
and top managers.
These are the six categories
of employees.
There can be only four of them
if there are no remote offices
and the company doesn't work
with young specialists.
It's important to remember
that the so-called
adaptation matrix
is a good tool for you.
It tells you
which tool
for which category of employees
you use and when.
At what stage of adaptation.
Speaking about the features
of adaptation of different categories
of employees,
we should remember
that we talked about
the aspects of adaptation.
Remember, organizational,
social, professional,
and psychophysiological.
The tools should be
connected to the aspects
depending on the category of employees.
Let's see what I mean.
First, if we talk about
the employees as a target group.
I have a number of
employees,
let's say,
working specialists.
First,
we should admit
that sometimes we don't
pay attention to them.
We start developing all tools
for the specialists,
offices, and so on.
If the employees
come to the warehouse
and ask for a tool,
we should show them
how to use it.
We should also understand
that this category is
numerous for many companies.
Such people
of such positions
vote by their feet.
If something goes wrong,
there are many offers
that are accepted by other companies.
We will be left
in search
of the wrong places.
We should always
work out what and how.
It may not be
a book of employees
or a folder that we give to everyone
if we talk about the managers
of the department of sales.
It may be a note for a new employee
with the necessary things.
It may be a schedule of the day,
a phone number of the shift manager
in case of a call.
Some rules,
and so on.
When a person gets a salary,
what to do
if he gets sick.
Some instruction to the actions
that we provide to a person.
It may be in a limited order,
but it should be.
Since we started talking
about the next category,
it is specialists,
engineers, and technicians.
As I said,
tools are developed
and they are the most
important in this category.
It is very important
for the employees
who came to this position
to tell about the company,
it is an organizational aspect.
To tell about the team,
to lead the team,
it is a social aspect.
For the young specialists,
the next category
will be a professional
aspect of adaptation.
Young specialists
were excellent yesterday,
they know a lot.
Unfortunately,
the gap between the education
that students get in universities
and the skills
that are required in business
exists.
For young specialists,
the most important will be
the professional aspect.
When we teach a person
to the level we need.
It is an organizational aspect.
Why?
Because such people
may not have the experience of work.
What is the business process?
What is the business environment?
What are the business rules?
It is important
that we need to
adjust the system
for young specialists.
We need to choose the tools
that are necessary for them.
If we talk about the remote office,
what is the priority?
It is not necessarily
a thousand kilometers.
It can be a warehouse
on the next street
where 2-10 employees work.
They are separated
from the central office.
It can be a small branch
of a bank retail network.
It can be a retail network
or a store.
It can be a perfumery
where 3-5 salespeople work
and the central office
is a place
where they were once
when they wrote an application.
What is the important aspect?
It is the company's vision.
They should feel like a part of the company.
It is very important.
What are the norms?
How do we live?
We should not have
a special subculture.
We are here,
and they are somewhere else.
If we talk about
small branches,
there can be no staff specialist.
For example,
there is a central office
and its functions are taken by
a line manager.
It is important
to build all the tools
from this point of view.
It is important for people
to feel like a part of the company.
The next group is
line managers,
top managers.
Let's look at them.
They are people who have
the experience
and knowledge
that we need.
The professional aspect
is not important.
What is important?
The organizational aspect.
A person worked in a business environment.
He got used to the business processes
that were organized.
It happens very often
that a person gets disappointed
because he cannot find
the tools he used to work.
He was efficient
and worked with a great automated management system.
He was well-tuned
and was assigned to his tasks.
He cannot show the same efficiency
because the company did not
establish a management account.
Therefore, a person should be introduced
and told how and what we do.
The next thing is
working with a team.
Taking a person from the country
to the position of a manager,
we understand that there can be
specialists in his department
who would like to take this position.
It is important to understand
whether there will be friendship
or this person
whose hopes were not fulfilled
and who would like to take this position
but you did not assign him for some reason
should be introduced and introduced
to the new manager.
A person who will explain
and tell the situation
will become an ally
and will work together.
You, being a competent person,
will prevent
the possible conflicts
that could happen.
Continuing the conversation
about middle-level managers,
it is important to remember
that they need the support
of top managers
especially in the first days of their lives.
Because the support of top managers
allows a person
to join the team
less painfully
and to be accepted.
Because if a top manager
uses respect,
the decision of a top manager
will be accepted and fulfilled by the employees.
If we talk about top managers,
I remind you about
the plans of acquaintance.
About the events that you prepare
and plan
to introduce
a top manager
to the company.
To the whole company.
If we talk about
people who occupy
the highest positions.
Here we talk about
the organizational aspect
and the social aspect.
That is, joining the team.
The next thing
that is important not to forget
and we have already mentioned it a little bit today
is that we talk a lot
about the adaptation
of a new employee.
But in no case should we forget
about the adaptation of a new employee.
Despite the fact that
the employee already works,
knows everyone, and so on.
The main aspects
will be
the professional aspect.
That is,
a person occupying a new position
is either ready,
and we trained him while he was in the personnel reserve,
and he was the successor
to the position he was assigned.
Nevertheless,
it is very important to remember this.
Because, let's say,
the rotation can be both vertical,
and this is related to career growth,
and horizontal.
This is related to professional growth
in companies that cannot
offer rapid career growth,
but nevertheless are interested
in the development of employees.
In this case,
it is necessary to remember that,
on the one hand,
the rotation can be within one unit,
or within different units,
within different divisions,
and within enterprises that are located,
as we said, in different areas,
or in different cities, or even in different countries.
Despite the fact that,
for example, relocation
or moving of an employee
from one country to another,
and he is a very strong specialist,
he knows the business company well,
he is a beginner for this company,
he may not know people,
or know only some of them,
he does not know
how business processes are organized.
Therefore,
it is also important to deal with this issue.
Sometimes,
the experience of working
in one of the large companies
in the consulting project
for the adaptation of the staff
that I participated in
was that
one HR gives a person
and stops his activity
when moving to another city,
and the other HR
does not always accept him on time,
because it would seem that he is going,
and he should already know a lot,
he was prepared, and so on.
The problem was
that there was a break,
when a person was in a vacuum,
he came to a new place,
high results were already waiting for him,
because he showed them there,
and they put their hopes on him.
But, let's say,
the environment,
not that he was not ready
for his arrival,
but, let's say,
some help from the organization,
which should be there,
it was not there at first,
which certainly affected
the effectiveness of this person.
Continuing the conversation
about the adaptation of a person
to a new position,
we talked about the adaptation sheet,
in this case,
there should be an analogue.
Very often it is called
an individual development plan,
because the adaptation sheets
for, let's say,
employees of the same profession
can be copied.
A sales manager came to us,
we have an adaptation sheet,
tomorrow a person comes to us
for a similar position,
this adaptation sheet will also work for him.
When we talk about individual development plans
for adaptation to a new position,
there should be an individual approach,
and we initially understand,
evaluate what is necessary
for a particular employee
when moving to this position,
what information,
what training,
what auxiliary materials.
So, colleagues,
a few words about the adaptation matrix,
which we also talked about today.
In a good way,
the adaptation matrix
is not always a document
or something else,
but it is a kind of understanding,
a system we are talking about today,
which includes the following points.
When we say that we have
different categories of employees,
those categories that are in our companies,
how we divided them
according to the necessary numbers.
Next, we say that there is a list of tools,
one tool works
for all categories,
only for one or two.
There is a period of adaptation,
at what period
we apply them.
On the first day,
the first week,
the first three months,
the introductory period,
the introduction to the position,
and so on.
And it is necessary,
responsible,
to have a list of tools
for the adaptation process.
As we remember,
the participants are the staff,
managers and mentors.
When we combine this matrix,
and sometimes people start
to draw from it,
to see where are the holes,
where the work is not going,
to change the situation.
In a good way,
it is a tool,
in case when it works,
it is a tool for adaptation.
It is not a set of tools
that we use.
Colleagues,
let's move to the next block,
to the question of efficiency assessment.
In general,
the assessment of the efficiency
of the tool in the area of staff management
is very sensitive.
It is impossible to do it,
and therefore we will not do it.
It is impossible because it is difficult.
Therefore, why waste time?
On the other hand,
it is necessary to do it,
because our task is
to increase the value of the business
by competent management
of the main resources of the business
by people.
Therefore,
we will talk about
and adhere to the point of view
that it is possible to assess
and necessary,
even if it is difficult.
First of all,
let's see who is interested
in assessing the efficiency
of the tools
that we use in our activities.
First, it is the shareholders
who want to understand
and want to see the return
from the investments
that they direct to the business.
Next, it is the top managers
and the staff themselves
who need to
economically justify
their activities.
When we talk about it,
let's say,
in general,
and today we have a narrower topic,
it is the assessment of the effectiveness
of adaptation tools and adaptation systems.
When does it make sense to say
that the first thing
when developing and introducing,
that is, at the stage when we understand
that we have reached the goal
or not reached it,
we jump the gap
or jump it only by half.
The next stage is when we assess
the existing system,
when it works
and we understand
how it is,
how and what needs to be done better.
If we talk about the methods
that are used in our companies,
the most common are
the following methods.
We talked about them
when we talked about the auditing methods
of the existing system.
We called them interviewing,
questionnaireing,
conducting surveys,
and so on.
In this case,
at the assessment stage,
we have several other tasks
than those that were at the audit stage.
We audited once,
but we need to assess constantly,
so it is very important
to ask them what was difficult
and incomprehensible on the first day,
what information was missing,
when tasks were assigned to you,
did you receive feedback from the manager,
did you understand whether your tasks
were achieved or not,
how often you worked with the mentor,
and so on.
Our system should be
tuned to people
and should be convenient and understandable.
If our system fails somewhere,
we will understand
what information was missing
when we answer the questions.
If the employees answer
that they missed some information,
for example, about the goals of the company,
information about their responsibilities,
and so on,
we receive specific recommendations
for actions.
Speaking about the assessment of efficiency,
I remind you that you can assess
the whole adaptation system,
you can assess a project,
for example,
the adaptation
and adaptation training,
the training of young specialists,
for example,
this project lasted two months,
and we need to understand
what we did,
what we wanted to be done.
The next third is the assessment
of a specific tool.
Depending on this,
assessment tools are different.
It can be a qualitative assessment,
or an assessment of the results of the research.
We talk about what we just mentioned,
what information was provided,
how convenient it was to use it,
and so on.
The next is quantitative methods.
These are certain indicators of efficiency
that we measure
and based on which we analyze our work.
The next tool is
an investment analysis tool,
the so-called ROI,
or return on investment,
Let's talk a little bit
about the last two tools.
As for the key indicators of efficiency,
these indicators
must be determined,
and they must be measured
by the staff,
even if they are not
targeted for a specialist.
These are the indicators
that are like a temperature,
which must be normal,
and which must be monitored
in their fluctuations and changes.
What can these indicators be?
The first is the cost of adapting
one employee.
I want to draw your attention
that the cost is not the same as the budget.
The budget is usually
what we have in our pockets,
what we can use and spend.
Sometimes there is a budget,
and we made a brochure
for a new employee.
But the budget is over,
and adaptation costs money.
The concept of cost is always
greater than the cost of the budget.
Even if there is nothing in our pockets,
and we do not have a budget
for adaptation activities,
adaptation of employees costs something.
This indicator is calculated
based on the time
spent on this employee,
whether it is the time of the manager,
mentor,
or staff employee.
This indicator is useful
to calculate based on categories.
How much does it cost
to adapt one employee,
one specialist of administration
or central office,
one linear manager,
and so on.
The next indicator is
the cost of preparing a mentor.
If we prepare them,
and not just say that
you will be a mentor tomorrow,
if we make an effort,
we should understand
that it is not a cost.
The next relative indicators
are the percentage of positions
that are covered
by the adaptation and mentoring system.
We have mentors,
and we report to ourselves
how many positions
are covered
by our mentoring system.
It turns out that
we are talking about three professions.
Even if they are the most important,
but these professions are three.
For some companies,
it can be a full coverage.
In other cases,
it is not necessary.
For some, it is not enough.
Therefore, there should be tasks
to cover more and more professions
that are priority for us.
The next indicator
is the test period.
If we equate the test period
to the adaptation period,
let's see
how many people
have successfully passed the test period,
how many have not passed
and were fired or were fired.
Again, the indicators are different.
One thing is the initiative of the employer,
and another thing is that the employee
worked and realized
that he made a wrong decision
about his future career.
This is the percentage of employees
who were fired during the first year of work.
I do not forget to remind you
that this is also an indicator
of the number of employees
who are fired.
Of course, 100% of employees
are fired not because
they made a wrong decision
or because they did not like something
in the first days.
There may be other reasons
for their dismissal.
The next indicator
is the percentage of employees
who are employed as mentors.
How many mentors do we have?
Do we have one mentor
and how many mentors do we have?
We have a chance to choose the best
and to provide different people
to develop their competencies in this field.
The list of indicators
is not complete,
it is not completely closed.
Depending on your tasks,
you can choose
a number of indicators
that you need
and that will signal
how the adaptation system
in your company works.
It turns out that the professional aspect
of adaptation is the most long-term
and, most often,
it is the most resource-intensive.
When we train an employee
with new knowledge and skills,
we need to think about
how to assess
the effectiveness of this training.
The best tool, colleagues,
that we have today
is the methodology of Donald Kirkpatrick,
one of the Western consultants
in the field of personnel management.
Sometimes this model is called
four-dimensional, four-factor.
That is not the point.
It is important to remember its content
and use this model
when assessing the training.
Let's recall what it is.
Whatever we do,
whether it is a welcome training
or training of some basics of work,
it is always important to understand the first thing.
It is important to assess
the reaction of the trained.
Usually, we do it with a questionnaire
when we ask questions
and ask what we liked, what we did not like,
what was easy, what was not enough.
We often stop at this point.
We say,
the training was great,
but look at the highest marks
on the questionnaire.
But wait.
We need to understand
that at the first level
there is only an assessment of the attitude,
the impression of the participant,
the training participant
or the training program itself.
We can listen
to a lecture
of a great coach.
He will tell you how he worked.
It will be very interesting.
But it does not mean
that we will have some knowledge
about how to play football.
And we will not become football players.
It is important to remember
that even if the first assessment
is positive,
it is only the beginning.
The next step is the assessment of knowledge,
the understanding
of what is left in the heads of the trained.
It is very important
when it comes to professional training.
The next level is the assessment
of behavior at work.
How does a person apply
the knowledge he has gained at work?
Has the knowledge been transformed into skills
or has it remained?
We can continue our analogy about football.
It is very important to know how to play football,
but never to enter the football field.
The next level is the assessment
of the result.
We are talking about the Kirkpatrick model.
It is the assessment of the result.
Does a person achieve
the result
for which the training was done?
Let's see how this model works
using the example of training.
Let it be a women's clothing store.
If we take
the sellers, consultants,
we assume
that they must pass
some introductory training
according to the standards and rules
of our company.
We say the following.
First, we evaluate
what the girls
at the seminar
were like.
Was everything clear?
Did they find a common language with the coach?
The next level is the assessment of knowledge.
We ask how much they remember the assortment.
Knowledge of the product
is vital for this profession.
The next level is
how much they apply
the knowledge they have learned in their work.
If we teach them
how to greet the customer
when he enters the store,
do they greet him?
How do they work with objections?
How do they identify the need
and offer the product
and the assortment in the store?
This is the third level.
The fourth level is the result.
We can measure it
and see it in different ways
depending on the company's standards.
It can be the revenue,
or the percentage
of visitors who left the store.
It is clear
that we have some standards.
We can't say that if there is a revenue,
it is only the result of the training.
Probably, if the service was bad,
there would be some revenue.
In any case, we need to measure
the level of the store
in our case,
which works with
uneducated sellers.
The situation changes
and it will change radically
if you conduct
introductory training for these specialists.
Colleagues,
a few words about ROI,
the tool of assessment of return on investment.
The ROI formula is simple.
The numerator is the difference
between the income and the project cost.
The denominator is the project cost.
The result is multiplied by 100%.
That's all.
But in fact,
it is not so simple
when it comes to staff management.
If we use the script
to calculate the project cost,
we have already discussed
that the cost is much higher
and it is calculated in addition
and not just the money spent.
The income from the project
is extremely difficult to calculate.
Now there are many discussions
about the application of this formula
when calculating the efficiency
of the staff system as a whole
or individual tools.
It is important to remember
that it is really difficult,
but my task now is to draw your attention
to the fact that a number of projects
related to the adaptation of staff
can be calculated
in addition to the cost.
The most difficult thing
in this process
will be the calculation
of the income from the project.
It is important to remember
that not only we could influence
the changes that our efforts have brought.
There could be some external factors
that, of course,
happened.
And when we say that
this result is a consequence
of our activity
and the consequences of the adaptation tools
we can hear the objections
of our colleagues.
My task now is to tell you
about the availability of this tool
and the possibility of such a tool.
And secondly, to recommend
and try to calculate
the income from a particular project
in your practice,
even a small one,
even a very small one
in the field of staff adaptation.
And calculate the result
and the result it has brought
and how this result is expressed
in money.
And try to calculate the return
on the investments that were invested in it.
Colleagues, I think you will agree
that no matter how long
and expensive the search for a new employee is,
the next necessary step
is the adaptation of the staff.
Our company is interested in
the fact that the new employee
does not resign in a few months,
because significant funds have already been spent
on his recruitment.
Our course will be useful
to those specialists in staff management,
whose task is to improve
the effectiveness of the existing adaptation system
or its individual tools.